In the last lecture we have seen how we can use the database seeder to populate our database with some
data using a single command.
So it was BJP artisan D.B. seed or alternatively we ran the peach bee artisan migrate refresh with the
seed the flag so it recreated the whole database and also seeded it with the data.
Now we have inserted this static record and by static I mean we just specified what data we would like
to insert here in this very lines.
So let's see what would be the difference if we would use factory so to call a model factory.
We can simply use the factory function and then we have to specify what class we would like to use.
So let's use up user and the class constant to get a fully qualified class name of the up user.
And now we can specify a second parameter to specify how many records we would like to be inserted.
So let's say we would like 20 users and then we have to just call Create Now let's see how it will work.
So we will call it with migrate refresh command to rebuild all the database and.
Well not to have an error that we already have.
This particular user because it's still there.
It will.
It will still be inserted.
So now let's see what we have inside the user's table and you can see that we have John Doe that we
have called first.
And also 20 additional users so we have 21 in total so we did that using this simple one liner and we
have used what we already have the model factory for the user.
Now we have seen that there is also a function of the model factory called US state and we use that
inside the block post model factory when if we wanted to have some of the parameters specified as exact
values like in this case we wanted new title we created a new state we have used that inside that test.
Actually you probably already seen that in this lecture we specified what state do we want.
So instead of having this long line we can create a state for the user too.
And this is useful because when you see the database with some data sometimes you might want to load
as a specific user and easily remember what email and password you'll have to use for that because otherwise
you will have random users with random emails as you see here.
So then after each DBC command when you run it you will have to check what are the emails available.
So let's do that now.
So we will we might copy this fragment from the blog post factor it into the user factory modify the
class name because this is actually a user and specify a new state House John Doe and now the only two
parameters that we would like to override
is the name and email.
So we might even keep the password.
The default one that we have here which is actually secret.
So now that we have this John Doe state inside their user factory we can replace this call with the
factory call so let's do factory up User class now we can use the state using the state's method.
The state name is John Doe.
And then we call create
so let's clear the tree now and recreate the database with the seed flag.
And now when you check the database you can see that we still have our John Doe and all the other users
are random.
So on the Web site you will be able to log in us our new John user.
So let's try it.
John Lara old test to make sure it's John.
Yes it's John.
And the password is just simply lowercase secret and you can see we are logged in.
You can trade with all the other users that we have here.
So OK let's log out now.
Now that was the first easy example of how we can use the model factories to quickly populate our database
and in the next lecture we will see how we can handle relations between models and this will be the
case for the blog posts and comments where you have to specify are user I.D. for each new created model.